One of the reasons that I'd left Forsyth County
was that in 1987,
there was a march
to object to the fact that this was
a "white county."
At one point there was a church group
who were up on Lake Lanier having a picnic
and were set upon by mobs of white people
in the 1980s
And so there was a march to protest that,
led by Hosea Williams and people
from the King Center
and my family were part of that march.
My parents were activists;
my dad's a methodist minister.
And they were met by this group.
This is a photograph of that day.
When I was writing the book,
I thought this would seem less familiar.
Since Charlottesville, the whole country
is more familiar with images like this.
And they came out and chanted
and threw rocks and bottles and bricks.
This is John Lewis and Hosea Williams
leading the Selma March in 1965
just before they are set upon
by Alabama State Troopers.
And there's Hosea in the overalls, in 1987,
twenty-two years later,
engaged in precisely the same kind of activism
and being set upon by the same kind of mob.
So, you have to fast forward about two decades,
and I had fled all of this conflict.
I had fled Forsyth County.
I was living in New York,
and I'd been out to dinner with a friend of mine,
who at the time was another nobody young poet like me.
Her name's Natasha Trethewey.
And if there are any poetry fans in the room,
she's not a nobody poet anymore.
She said, "Why have you never written about that?
About this 'white county' where you were raised?"
After Natasha asked me that question,
I started trying to see if I could use my education
to find out the real story
of what had happened in 1912.
There was, in fact, in 1912,
a murder of a woman named Mae Crow.
And these two boys were hung for the crime.
Five thousand white people came out
to celebrate the hanging
as a kind of festival day, like a picnic.
This had always been told to me
in kind of mythic terms,
with the names and the dates and
the places stripped away.
So I became interested not just in
the fact that this racial cleansing, this terror,
had happened in my home place,
but that somehow, in 75 years,
they had erased all sign that it ever occurred.
These children were part of the 1,098
black residents of Forsyth who fled.
Over the course of about two months,
the terrorist attacks --
arson, gunfire, lynching, and the threat of lynching --
succeeded in driving out one-tenth of the population
of Forsyth County.
The erasure of such places from the map of Forsyth was complete.
Today, all that's left are a few scant details
about the dates on which churches were founded,
lot numbers for the land on which they stood,
and the names of a handful of ministers
and worshippers who once gathered there.
All over the county, beneath the ground on which
black churches stood, the soil is rich with ashes.
When I went back to Cumming the first time
and stood on the corner
where a man named Rob Edwards was lynched in 1912,
My jaw just dropped because I had been
researching this guy,
and he was part of the Democratic caucus
that really reversed all the gains of reconstruction.
And on the corner where Rob Edwards was lynched,
there is a statue to him.
And this statue was erected in 2002.
So not only is there no sign on the land
of what happened to the black community there,
it has been really overwritten with this kind of thing.
So that's kind of my argument, for people to do
this work, to interrogate where they come from,
to not take for granted the prosperity around you,
that it got that way peacefully or justly.
So, thank you guys so much for listening.